# Nomad-Station-Costs-Savanna-Dickie
Program to generate the costs for product, energy, and packaging for Nomad Station menu items.

Overview and reflection My aspiration for this project is to create a program that will generate product, energy, and packaging cost for Nomad Station Items. My goal is to simplify the book keeping process by automatically calculating production costs and selling price. This will allow a clear view of revenue made on a specific order.

This project is interesting to me because it is applicable in my every day life. I have a small business selling freeze dried food. It has been difficult for me to keep track of costs. This program allows me to have all of the pricing consistantly in one place. For my business, I plan on creating and managing my own website and book keeping and this program is another step in the right direction for my business. Also, it is interesting because the data is real. I got the kiloWatt hour cost from the city. The kilowatt usage of the medium size freeze dryer per hour is direcly from the website. The price of the items is a rounded average between the last three times I have purchased items from the menu. Throughout the entire course I was notating strings and elements that I felt would be appliciable for this exact program. So, to see it come together to a beautiful working code is truly interesting and epic.

I had difficulty debating if I want my item menu (item, cost, time) to come from a list or a text file. This stemmed from me knowing a text file may work better but I had a preference for working with dictonary lists. I decided to try a text file and was able to successfully use an array of it to save and use throughout each program run. My method for selecting menu items will present only 0 index of the line to the user. The user selects and it pulls the applicable information (1 and 2 index) to use throughout the rest of the code by returing a tuple that includes all of it. This was difficult but it allowed me to entertain the idea to write a file. Writing a file with my SaveOrder method saves everything from the program even after it ends. So my purchasehistory.txt is something that I attempted and succeeded at! I really love it and it is my absolute favorite part of the code becuase it shows more of a breakdown of the costs than I need presented to the user everytime.

I learned so much about tuples. I relied on a tuple for my most important method. I also learned that I CAN do this and I can create anything I set my mind to. I also learned that I can expand so much more on this. I can create more text files that save just the hours used so it gives me a notification to change the freeze dryer oil when I reach a certain amount. I could create a file just simply for yearly costs and revenue. I also really had to scratch my brain on how to test my code and I learned there was so many flaws that were hidden from me. I also learned more about the benefits of the do while loop as it was an addition after debugging my code. I really learned how to create something from my own idea and instructions into something functional and mostly helpful.

DIAGRAMS. NomadStationCostCalculatorFLOWCHART.pdf